---
title: "What? A personal blog???"
date: 2023-02-18
draft: false
cover: "/img/you_laugh_1.jpg"
coverAlt: "Handsome is as handsome does"
description: "So, why a personal blog in this day and age of Facebook and a plethora of other micro-blogging sites? Certainly there are more direct ways to publish a blog..."
---

>So, why a personal blog in this day and age of Facebook and a plethora of other micro-blogging sites? Certainly there are more direct ways to publish a blog and build an audience. "Besides..." you say "You already have a web comic on WordPress. So, what gives?"
>
>All of that considered, over the last few years I’ve grown tired of the all the shenanigans surrounding most privately owned social media companies. Yeah, I’ve also become the cranky old web developer… longing for the days of a more free wheeling decentralized internet, where personal blogs where the norm, audience and engagement be damned. 
>
>More to the point, on every social media platform I see more ads than friends, ad’s that at times hysterically mis-target me. Go to Facebook Marketplace and search around for a Motorcycle jacket, your ad’s on your timeline will be for leather bondage gear in no time. Really, trust me leather chaps are not a good look on my tired old ass, regardless of what Facebook thinks. Of the 200 or more friends I have on Facebook I only consistently see a handful of people's posts, the more they post basically the more you see them. Which made me wonder about those I hadn’t seen? So, I went into my friends list and started looking for those friends I hadn’t seen in a while. What I started to see was a small but consistent number of people leaving or ghosting Facebook, I guess, either having had one too many bad experiences with trolls, being hacked (in some instances repeatedly), Facebook jail or the dreaded shadowban. Some just about abandon their accounts, posting infrequently, because Facebook just wasn’t fun anymore. The end result is we see way more ads than friends and every time an account goes silent, it’s one less connection. I came to Facebook for fun and connections, instead now, I’m bombarded with death notices like an old Irish Grand Ma reading the obits, aka “Irish racing form” (as one cousin once called it). It's sad when someone passes, multiple postings just seem to prolong the sadness.
>
>Facebook's shortcomings are many, but the flaming whorehouse on an island of lepers that Twitter has become, underscores the idea that one individual or group of individuals having any control over what I post is just absurd. Hell, they can’t even prevent account cloning. In Facebook’s case it leads to all the “I’ve been hacked” posts, in Twitter’s (while not cloning per se) we got Mario flipping us the bird. While funny, this speaks to the slightly antagonistic nature that now exists between the end user and social media companies in general. In both media companies cases allowing avowed racists and insurrectionists to reactivate their accounts is a complete non-starter for me. Mind you, I’ll still post to Facebook. Just branching out for now. More on that below. 
>
>In doing this blog, I’ve chosen an open source method or as close as I can get to it. I’ve chosen to host this site on {{< rawhtml >}}<a href="https://pages.github.com/" target="_blank">Git Hub Pages</a>{{< /rawhtml >}}. I’ve further chosen to use {{< rawhtml >}}<a href="https://gohugo.io/" target="_blank">Hugo</a>{{< /rawhtml >}} as my SSG (Static Site Generator) with comments being handled by {{< rawhtml >}}<a href="https://cactus.chat/" target="_blank">Cactus Comments</a>{{< /rawhtml >}}. My little Linux box (more on that later) serves as the local repository. In short I wanted to build it without it feeding ecosystems that exist for their own ends. 
>
>Needless to say I have issues with social media that go way beyond what I've mentioned above. Fortunately for me I can code a site and create my own space. So I did. Feel free to comment below. 
>
>For those who don’t feel compelled to go as far as I have there is an alternative, to the whole Facebook/Twitter chaos. It’s called {{< rawhtml >}}<a href="https://musician.social/@vee" target="_blank">Mastodon</a>{{< /rawhtml >}}, it’s decentralized, fun and it's tech bro free. You can hit me up there as well. Trust me I’ll be happy to see you there. You will be welcomed.
>
>
>
>That’s all for now. 
>
>\- Love and rockets
 
{{< chat what-blog >}}





